tickets/DM-46157: Move Nublado Client into Nublado monorepo (#401)
lsst-sqre/nublado: docs/dev/client.rst

> ############

Reviewer: This is a user guide for the Nublado client right? In that case, it doesn't belong in the Nublado developer documentation, but instead as a separate part of the Nublado docs.

Author: OK, I'll hoist it up a level.

Client guide
############

> This page describes the use of the ``NubladoClient`` class and especially its provided testing classes.

Reviewer: These docs should mention how to install the client from PyPI and also mention the full Python namespace early rather than just ``NubladoClient``. If we can make API docs for the NubladoClient and its exceptions and models, even better.

Author: I do not know how to make API docs, or at least not how to autogenerate them.

Author: Docs restructured and improved.  No API autogen though.

Both of these will be available in the service you are writing with each request, in the ``X-Auth-Request-Token`` and ``X-Auth-Request-User`` headers on the request.
You should not, in general, need to go to Gafaelfawr to extract any further information about the token, but you must be prepared to handle 401s and 403s in case the token you have is invalid, expired, or does not grant sufficient scope for the service you want to use.

Sequence of Events
==================

A typical interaction with the client usually looks like this:

#. Authenticate to the Hub with the ``auth_to_hub()`` method.
#. Determine whether or not you have a running lab with ``is_lab_stopped()``.
#. If you need to, spawn a lab with ``spawn_lab()``.
#. Wait for the lab to spawn by looping through ``watch_spawn_progress()`` until you get a progress message indicating the lab is ready.
#. Authenticate to the Lab with ``auth_to_lab()``
#. Use ``open_lab_session()`` as a context manager to interact with your lab.
#. Do whatever it is you wanted to do with the lab; more below.
#. When done, use ``stop_lab()`` to shut down the lab, if desired.

> The ``client_test`` test in the client test suite steps through this process and may be a useful model.

Reviewer: Try dropping an example into the docs, because finding the `client_test` module? function? is a little inconvenient.

Author: Done.

.. _lab-interaction:

Interacting With The Lab
========================

> ``NubladoClient`` provides three methods of interacting with a spawned lab.  These are methods on the ``JupyterLabSession`` object you will have available inside the session context manager.  They are:

Reviewer: I think orienting the docs around use cases and including examples would be good.

Author: OK.  To what degree is it legitimate to point at Ghostwriter?  Because the Ghostwriter hooks are (I think) a pretty good example of some things you might want to do to exercise `run_python()`

Author: Eh, just wrote some long-form examples in the docs.

#. ``run_python()``.  This runs a string representing arbitrary Python code and returns streamed results (which is to say, ``stdout`` wihin each cell).  Of course, this code will run in the Lab environment specified by the session, which will be bound to a particuar kernel (usually ``LSST`` within the RSP), and will have access to whatever is installed in that kernel.
#. ``run_notebook()``.  This runs each cell of a supplied notebook using ``run_python()``, accumulating the results and ultimately returning them as a list of cell outputs.

> #.  ``run_notebook_via_rsp_extension()``.  As is obvious from the name, this is not a standard Jupyter feature.  This runs a notebook in the same way ``Times-Square`` does, by using a Rubin Observatory-specific extension within the user lab that, in turn, uses ``nbconvert`` to execute notebooks and return their rendered form.  If you need to execute a notebook and capture output that did not go to stdout (for instance, the Javascript created by a Bokeh call, that will ultimately run in your browser), this is at present the way to do it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#.  ``run_notebook_via_rsp_extension()``.  This executes a notebook via the ``nbexec`` RSP JupyterLab extension.  `Times Square <https://times-square.lsst.io>`__ and `Noteburst <https://noteburst.lsst.io>`__ use this method. The ``nbexec`` JupyterLab extensions runs within the user lab, and in turn, uses ``nbconvert`` to execute notebooks and return their rendered form.  If you need to execute a notebook and capture output that did not go to stdout (for instance, the Javascript created by a Bokeh call, that will ultimately run in your browser), this is at present the way to do it.
```

Author: Noted (it's not `nbexec` anymore, just the `/rubin/execution` endpoint of the server extension, but I'll call it out).

Author: Done.

The reason you would use this is to be able to meaningfully test your service without having to test against a live RSP or spin up your own RSP to test the service against.
Although there are quite a few additional classes within the module, ``MockJupyter`` should be the only one you need directly.
In the client test suite, there is a context manager ``jupyter`` which is an illustration of how to create a MockJupyter (which is fundamentally based on the ``respx`` class for testing ``httpx`` services) and monkeypatch in a websocket emulator.
Once you have a mocked Jupyter in play, you should not need to do very much else: use a regular ``NubladoClient``, and if you have configured it and the mock for the same base URL, the mock should respond appropriately.

Mocking Payloads
----------------

The attentive reader will have noticed a potential problem.
The Python code being used as a client payload is expected, in the wild, to run within an RSP kernel.
The ``LSST`` kernel is extremely heavyweight and has all kinds of features not found in a vanilla Python installation.

> How can we unit-test this without installing the DM stack in our test suite?

Reviewer: Consider dropping this paragraph or cutting to the chase.
